1. Download the source code from the source then unzip the file and open projct folder there you open Gitbash

2. Create Dockerfile in frontend ad also create nginx folder in that default.conf file

3. Create Dockerfile in backend 

4. Create nginx folder in that nginx.conf file 

5. Build docker image locall inthat you need to download Docker Engine locally 
    Go to browser search for download docker engine for windows 
    Download and install the docker
    Also install Ubuntu 22.04 LTS from Microsoft store

6. Open Windows Powershell as administrater
    There you can check docker version and build images

7. Build frontend code image

               docker build -t dockerhubusername/frontend-app:latest ./frontend

               docker build -t gorliganesh321/frontend-app:latest ./frontend

8. Build backend code image

               docker build -t dockerhubusername/backend-app:latest ./backend

               docker build -t gorliganesh321/backend-app:latest ./backend

9. Push the Docker images to Docker hub before that we can repositories in Dockerhub so open web browser and login/create accont and loging  and create repositories name as

               rontend-app

               backend-app

10. Come back to the Powershell and connect the device to Docker hub
        
               docker login

               open displayed link

               enther the displayed code

               connected successfully

11. Then push images to docker hub 

               docker push yourdockerhub/backend-app:latest

               docker push gorliganesh321/backend-app:latest
      
               docker push yourdockerhub/frontend-app:latest

               docker push gorliganesh321/frontend-app:latest

    docker image push is succeded
    if any error occures solve it in locally

12. Go to git hub create repository and copy the URL

13. Go back to the root folder and there open gitbash 

               git init

               git status

               git add .

               git commit -m " message "

               git remote add origin yourgithubrepoURL

               git remote -v

               git branch -M main

               git push origin -u main

   All the files successfully pushed to remote repo

14.  Go to aws console and launch instance with ubuntu 22.04 version type : t2.medium

15.   Go to security groups and edit inbound rules add ports
                      80
                      8080
                  
16.  Connect to instance through ssh-key / ssh client

               sudo apt update

               add docker library to apt repository and install docker and docker comopse

               sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu    ( Create one ubuntu user )

               git clone githubrepoURL                  ( Clone github repo on VM )

               ls                                                    ( ckeck files and folder existed in that path )

               cd githubrepo_name                      ( Enter into the repo )

17.  pull the images from docker hub create and run the Docker containers

               sudo docker compose up -d

               sudo docker ps

      containers created and run successfully 

      if you get any errors during this process solve it manually and check

18. Check the application in web browser

               http://publicIP:AssignedPort

The the above process what we have done in manually now we can write CI/CD automation using Github Actions

19. Go back to the root folder and there open gitbash

               create folder .github/workflows in that folder create ci-cd.yml there u define automation stages

20 . Add GitHub Secrets

               In GitHub repo → Settings → Secrets:

               DOCKER_USERNAME

               DOCKER_PASSWORD

               VM_HOST

               VM_SSH_KEY

21. All done then add, commit and push the code 
          
               git add .

               git commit -m "message"

               git push rogin main
Whwn ever the developer pueshe the code to remote repo it automatically built and deployed the code

22. Check the application in web browser

               http://publicIP:AssignedPort



            
 
